notes.md, before:

# Topics I need to practice:
* Linked Lists


## Space Complexity
Total amount of memory space used by an algorithm/program including the space of input values for execution

Space Complexity = Auxiliary space + Space use by input values
* O(1) (constant space, a fixed number of variables, doesn't scale with argument)
* O(N) (scale with argument, usually like arrays or similar datatypes)

# Algorithms
## Greedy Algorithms
---
A greedy algorithm is an approach for solving a problem by selecting the best option available at the moment. It doesn't worry whether the current best result willl bring the overall optimal result.

It works in a top-down approach and nevever reverses the earlier decision even if the choice is wrong. 
1. Greedy Choice Property
    - an optimal solution to the problem can be found by choosing the bets choice at each step without reconsidering the previous teps once chosen, the peoblem can be solved using a greedy approach
2. Optimal Substrucutre
    - if the optimal overal solution to the problem corresponds to the optimal solution to its subproblems, then the problem can be solv3ed using a greedy approach

## Dynamic Programming
---
A technique in computer programming for solving a given complex problem by breaking it down into subproblems and memorizing the outcomes of those subproblems to prevent repeating computations

Properties of Dynamic Programming
1. Optimal Substructure
    - a problem is said to have an optimal substructure if we can formulate a recurrence relation for it
2. Overlapping subproblem
    - A problem is said to have an overlapping subproblem if the subproblems reoccur when implementing a solution to the larger problem

Tabulation vs Memoization

Tabulation = Bottom Up Approach, create a 2D array

Memoization = Top down Approach, memorize a value at a time

## Kadane's Algorithm:
---
Solving Maximum Subarray Problems


link: https://medium.com/@rsinghal757/kadanes-algorithm-dynamic-programming-how-and-why-does-it-work-3fd8849ed73d

# Data Structures

# Computational techniques
## Sliding Window
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/window-sliding-technique/

aims to reduce the use of nested loop and replace it with a single loop, thereby reducing the time complexity

pre-requisite:
- can only be used in a very specific scenario, where the size of window for computation is fixed throughout the complete nested loop, Only then the time complexity can be reduced.

General Idea: Calculate a section of an array, then slide the section over by a fixed number of elements, subtract the old items and add the new items.

Commit message:

6/22/22 - definitely making better progress and moving on to the medium questions, still need to find more motivation to grind more leetcode questions tho

notes.md, after:

# Topics I need to practice:
- Linked Lists
- Dynamic Programming
- Greedy Algorithm

# Notes
## Space Complexity
Total amount of memory space used by an algorithm/program including the space of input values for execution

Space Complexity = Auxiliary space + Space use by input values
* O(1) (constant space, a fixed number of variables, doesn't scale with argument)
* O(N) (scale with argument, usually like arrays or similar datatypes)

# Algorithms
## Greedy Algorithms
---
A greedy algorithm is an approach for solving a problem by selecting the best option available at the moment. It doesn't worry whether the current best result willl bring the overall optimal result.

It works in a top-down approach and never reverses the earlier decision even if the choice is wrong. 
1. Greedy Choice Property
    - an optimal solution to the problem can be found by choosing the bets choice at each step without reconsidering the previous teps once chosen, the peoblem can be solved using a greedy approach
2. Optimal Substrucutre
    - if the optimal overal solution to the problem corresponds to the optimal solution to its subproblems, then the problem can be solv3ed using a greedy approach

## Dynamic Programming
---
A technique in computer programming for solving a given complex problem by breaking it down into subproblems and memorizing the outcomes of those subproblems to prevent repeating computations

Properties of Dynamic Programming
1. Optimal Substructure
    - a problem is said to have an optimal substructure if we can formulate a recurrence relation for it
2. Overlapping subproblem
    - A problem is said to have an overlapping subproblem if the subproblems reoccur when implementing a solution to the larger problem

Tabulation vs Memoization

Tabulation = Bottom Up Approach, create a 2D array

Memoization = Top down Approach, memorize a value at a time

## Kadane's Algorithm:
Solving Maximum Subarray Problems


link: https://medium.com/@rsinghal757/kadanes-algorithm-dynamic-programming-how-and-why-does-it-work-3fd8849ed73d


## Floyd's Cycle Finding Algorithm (Tortoise-Haire Algorithm)
A pointer algorithm that only uses two pointers, moving through the sequence and different speeds. This algorithm is used to find a loop inside a linked list with O(n) time and O(1) space, but can also be adapted to solve other problems like finding duplicates inside a list.

Link: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/floyds-cycle-finding-algorithm/#:~:text=How%20Does%20Floyd's%20Cycle%20Finding%20Algorithm%20Works%3F&text=The%20Fast%20pointer%20may%20reach,exists%20in%20the%20linked%20list.

# Data Structures

# Computational techniques
## Sliding Window
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/window-sliding-technique/

aims to reduce the use of nested loop and replace it with a single loop, thereby reducing the time complexity

pre-requisite:
- can only be used in a very specific scenario, where the size of window for computation is fixed throughout the complete nested loop, Only then the time complexity can be reduced.

General Idea: Calculate a section of an array, then slide the section over by a fixed number of elements, subtract the old items and add the new items.

## Tail Recursion
A specific form of recursing where the recursive call is the last action in the function. The benefit of tail recursion is that for certain programming languages such as c++ the complier could optimize the memory allocation of call stack by reusing the same space for every recursive call, rather than creating the space for each one, allowing one to obtain the constant space complexity O(1) for the overhead of the recursive calls.
- not supported by python or java
